docs: einstein for developers (#5053)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/einstein/einstein-setup.md

---
title: Einstein for Developers Setup
lang: en
---

## Set Up Overview

A Salesforce admin or user with the appropriate permissions can install Einstein for Developers in a supported Salesforce org. A developer with access to the org can then:

1.  Install the extension in VS Code.
2.  Connect to an org with Einstein for Developers enabled.
3.  Use the extension to generate Apex code from natural language instructions.

### Required Salesforce Editions and User Permissions

**Available in**: Developer, Enterprise, Partner Developer, Performance and Unlimited Editions.

> **Inoperable in**: Group, Professional, and Essentials Editions

Reviewer: @sbudhirajadoc Can we add a footnote here saying your org must have Enhanced Domains for this feature as well? _most_ orgs should have it at this point so don't want to cause too much alarm but I'd like to call it out just in case 

Here's the enhanced domains timeline fyi - https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=sf.domain_name_enhanced_timeline.htm&type=5

## Connect to an Org

The Einstein for Developers tool is run in the context of a Salesforce org, in a Salesforce DX project. To use this tool:

1. Go to **File** > **Open Folder** in the menu and open an existing Salesforce DX project in VS Code, or create one.

2. Run the **SFDX: Authorize an Org** command to connect to the Salesforce sandbox org or scratch org that has Einstein for Developers enabled.

The Einstein logo on the activity bar and in the status bar confirms that the extension is installed. Open the command palette and run `View: Show Einstein Developer Sidebar` to open the sidebar.

![einstein installed](../../../images/einstein-installed.png)

### Use Einstein for Developers in a Scratch Org

Einstein for Developers is only available in scratch org editions that can author Apex:

- Developer Edition
- Enterprise Edition

Activate Einstein for Developers by turning on the `EinsteinGPTForDevelopers` scratch org feature:

> 1. Edit the `config/project-scratch-def.json` file in your DX project and add the “`EinsteinGPTForDevelopers`” feature to your existing feature list. For example:

Reviewer: @sbudhirajadoc the scratch org changes look good - can we explicitly call out that the user will need to enable EGPT in the **dev hub** setup page for this to work? So the steps are:
1. enable in dev hub
2. log into dev hub in vs code
3. add feature to scratch org def file (could move this up in order)
4. create a scratch org from that dev hub

Author: fixed.

```
   {
   "orgName": "Acme Company",
   "edition": "Developer",
   "features":[“Communities”, “ServiceCloud, "EinsteinGPTForDevelopers"]
   }
```

2. Save your changes to activate the feature.
3. Use the `SFDX: Authorize a Dev Hub` command to log into a Dev Hub.
4. Create a scratch org using the `SFDX: Create a Default Scratch Org...` command referencing the scratch org definition that you previously updated.

> 5. Enable Einstein for Developers in the scratch org.

Reviewer: Einstein for Developers can't be enabled from Scratch Org Setup - it has to be done through the Dev Hub and a scratch org will inherit the value from the dev hub

## Connect to an Org

The Einstein for Developers tool is run in the context of a Salesforce org, in a Salesforce DX project. To use this tool:

1. Go to **File** > **Open Folder** in the menu and open an existing Salesforce DX project in VS Code, or create one.

2. Run the **SFDX: Authorize an Org** command to connect to the Salesforce sandbox org or scratch org that has Einstein for Developers enabled. Pick default options to connect to your org.

The Einstein logo on the activity bar and in the status bar confirms that the extension is installed. Open the command palette and run `View: Show Einstein Developer Sidebar` to open the sidebar.

![einstein installed](../../../images/einstein-installed.png)

### Use Einstein for Developers in a Scratch Org

Einstein for Developers is only available in scratch org editions that can author Apex:

- Developer Edition
- Enterprise Edition

To use Einstein for Developers in a scratch org:

1. Enable Einstein for Developers in the Dev Hub.

> 2. Use the `SFDX: Authorize a Dev Hub` command to log into the Dev Hub.

Reviewer 2: Is this a command palette task?

```suggestion
2. Log into the Dev Hub. Run: 

    `SFDX: Authorize a Dev Hub`
```

> 3. Activate Einstein for Developers by turning on the `EinsteinGPTForDevelopers` scratch org feature:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

---
title: Einstein for Developers Setup
lang: en
---

## Set Up Overview

A Salesforce admin or user with the appropriate permissions can install Einstein for Developers in a supported Salesforce org. A developer with access to the org can then:

1.  Install the extension in VS Code.
2.  Connect to the org to use the extension.

### Required Salesforce Editions and User Permissions

**Available in**: Developer, Enterprise, Partner Developer, Performance and Unlimited Editions.

**Inoperable in**: Group, Professional and Essentials Editions

### User Permissions Needed

**Configure Einstein for Developers(beta)**: `CustomizeApplication` and `ModifyAllData`

## Enable Einstein for Developers

An Admin can enable Einstein for Developers in a supported Salesforce org by following the given steps.

> 1. From Setup, enter Einstein for Developers in the Quick Find box, then select Einstein for Developers. If you don’t see Einstein for Developers as an option under Setup in your Developer Edition org, it was likely created before Einstein for Developers was introduced and doesn’t have the correct permissions. To continue, create another Developer Edition org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From Setup, enter Einstein for Developers in the Quick Find box, then select Einstein for Developers. 
     - If you don’t see Einstein for Developers as an option under Setup in your Developer Edition org, it was likely created before Einstein for Developers was introduced and doesn’t have the correct permissions. To continue, create another Developer Edition org.
```

> 2. Enable Einstein for Developers, and then review and accept the license agreement.

Reviewer: Can we put extra emphasize here that we encourage their admin to thoroughly review the license agreement *before* accepting the terms and conditions and enabling Einstein for Developers? The modal links out to the T&Cs so it'd be good to draw their attention to that

Author: done.

Einstein for Developers(beta) is activated in the org and all the users in the org have access to the feature.

### Add Users to the Org

An admin can add additional users to the org as needed:

1. From Setup, enter Users in the Quick Find box, then select **Users**.
2. Click **New User** or **Add Multiple Users**.
3. Select the appropriate license type and profile based on the user’s role.
4. Select the **Generate passwords and notify user via email** checkbox.
5. Click **Save**.
   This procedure generates an email inviting the new users into the org.

### Visual Studio Code Version

VS Code releases a new version each month with new features and important bug fixes. You must be on VS Code Version 1.76 or higher to run the Einstein for Developers extension. You can manually check for updates from **Help** **> Check for Updates** on Linux and Windows or **Code > Check for Updates** on macOS.

## Get Started with Einstein for Developers

> A developer with access to an org enabled for Einstein for Developers can install the Einstein for Developers extensions in VS Code, connect to org and start using the extension.

Reviewer: This section feels similar to the intro to the page, is there anything specific we want to draw their attention to ?

Author: consolidated.

> ## Install Einstein for Developers Extensions

Reviewer: Can we also include how to install the Salesforce Extension Pack + Einstein for Developers Extensions from within VS Code and Code Builder?

> To use Einstein for Developerslocally, first install Salesforce Extensions and Salesforce CLI on your desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Einstein for Developers locally, first install Salesforce Extensions and Salesforce CLI on your desktop.
```

<a class="slds-button slds-button_brand landing__header-cta slds-m-vertical--x-large" href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=salesforce.salesforcedx-vscode">Install the Salesforce Extensions</a>

Then install Einstein for Developers(beta)from the VS Code marketplace.

<a class="slds-button slds-button_brand landing__header-cta slds-m-vertical--x-large" href="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=salesforcedx-einstein-gpt">Install Einstein for Developers(beta)</a>

## Connect to an Org

The Einstein for Developers(beta) tool is run in the context of a Salesforce org, in Salesforce DX project. To use this tool:

1. Go to **File** > **Open Folder** in the menu and open an existing Salesforce DX project in VS Code, or create a new one.

2. Run the **SFDX: Authorize an Org** command to connect to the Salesforce sandbox org or scratch org that has Einstein for Developers(beta) enabled.

> A sidebar panel opens and the Einstein logo on the activity bar confirms that the extension is installed.

Reviewer: The sidebar won't open automatically - we should just say that they'll be able to tell the Einstein for Devs extension is installed and active via the Status Bar icon - and they'll see the Einstein icon in their sidebar as well

![einstein installed](../../../images/einstein-installed.png)

### Use Einstein for Developers(beta) in a Scratch Org

Einstein for Developers(beta)is only available in scratch org editions that can author Apex:

- Developer Edition
- Enterprise Edition

Activate Einstein for Developers by turning on an add-on scratch org feature.

> Edit and save the `config/project-scratch-def.json` file in your DX project to add the “`EinsteinGPTForDevelopers`” feature to your existing feature list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to add the “`EinsteinGPTForDevelopers`” feature to your `config/project-scratch-def.json` file. Save the new version of the file in your DX project to get started. 
```

For example:

```
{
"orgName": "Acme Company",
"edition": "Developer",
"features":[“Communities”, “ServiceCloud, "EinsteinGPTForDevelopers"]
}
```

## Show Einstein Feedback Console View

> Run **Einstein: Show Prompt History** from the Command Palette to open the Feedback console. When opened, you can view a running history of your prompts and associated responses. Use 👍, 👎, and comments for each response to provide us feedback about the quality of the generated code. Your feedback during this beta is key to helping us improve AI model quality and overall product.

Reviewer: Depending on the thread we have going with Flora, we might update this command to point to one of the other History ones
